the challenge I face here on YouTube all
too often is trying to say something
deep about an inherently shallow topic
I'm responding to a sort of manifesto
from Supreme banana
she made a political statement about
veganism worth talking about and a lot
of my regular viewers and supporters
asked me to comment on it but I'm gonna
jump in at the deep end of the pool on
this one put yourself in the position of
an American citizen at the end of World
War two the United States is just one
one of the largest most violent most
terrible wars in the world and the
government the United States is using
taxpayers money not just to hand out
cigarettes soldiers but to hand out
millions and millions of cigarettes for
free to Germans to German civilians it's
amazing and it's bizarre but at that
time the American government was so Pro
tobacco I don't know if they believe in
this because they thought maybe in the
future all Europeans would start buying
tobacco export United States I have no
idea what the reasoning was but the
American government was using taxpayers
money to hand out millions of cigarettes
for free like candy and huge numbers of
servicemen huge numbers of soldiers
ruled you became hooked on cigarettes
during their years of service in the
army when they returned back home they
took that bad habit with them alright
it's not really adequate to respond to
that situation simply by focusing on
your own personal purity simply by
engaging in a form of passive boycott
and deciding I am never gonna smoke
cigarettes again the reality is you're
living in a world you would have been
let's say the year is 1950 or 1951 or
something in the aftermath of World War
2 you're living in a world where
cigarette companies movie companies
television so much of the visible
culture around you is actively
propounding and encouraging people to
smoke cigarettes and just recently just
a few years earlier when World War 2 was
winding down the government itself at
public expense
was trying to increase the number of
people addicted to this ultimately
harmful drug okay
the parallels to veganism are all too
clear yeah I can decide that I
personally will never eat meat again I
will never drink milk again I will never
buy leather shoes again I live in a city
where advertising glorifying those
things is literally painted on the walls
around me right
posters adorned every Street the
messages promoting cheap readily
available meat they surround me that on
television on radio and every possible
broadcast made in movies even to some
extent and yes there's also a whole
structure of how government and
corporations and even the education
system are all linked to one another in
promoting the message that milk and eggs
and meat are things that human beings
need to eat on a daily basis or else
they're gonna collapse and you know
there are other illustrations too I
think there's a fairer to some extent
the establishment is even into promoting
the notion that hey beer isn't all that
bad
or one glass of wine a days know that
that even though literally each and
every serving of alcohol causes brain
damage this is the kind of cultural
context we live in now look guys on the
other side it's understandable during
World War Two would tobacco be on the
top of anyone's list of political
concerns know you're kind of distracted
kind of distracted by some other things
going on the murders of millions of
people the sudden revelation of the atom
bomb you know punctuating this conflict
on a vast scale the renegotiation of
peace treaties and borders all over the
whole world chaos and revolution and
anti imperialist rhetoric and you know
the disintegration of the British Empire
the emergence of new nation-states there
was so much going on for most people who
cared about politics who really cared
did they have the capacity to care about
this to care about cigarettes it's a
problem even now or at any given time
for veganism when is the question of
institutional support for political
support for animal products when is that
going to be at the top of anyone's mind
so you might be expecting this video to
be a sort of critique of the definition
of the word vegan and for me to complain
the supreme banana has been trying to
expand the definition of the word vegan
to include people we meet as if they're
vegan that's not my point at all
supreme banana has a comment up a few
days after she recorded the video where
she clarifies and I quote it doesn't
make sense for someone who is not 100%
vegan to call themselves vegan this will
just create a slippery slope and
technically anybody could be a
quote-unquote vegan I wasn't clear when
I spoke about the definition
I rather meant we should change your
definition of the community not change
the definition of the word change your
definition of acceptance and what
actions deserve applause aka every true
effort I think it's okay to call
yourself a part-time vegan or
transitioning vegan or working on being
vegan and honestly call yourself
whatever the hell you want but what
matters is not perfection it's the
effort the actions and the intention so
you're saying we should we should
applaud these people who are trying to
make a positive difference even if
they're not vegan she's not saying to to
change the definition of vegan itself um
for me the deepest
issue here in what's you know relatively
shallow set of concerns Nepal that's
understandably so the deepest issue here
is the kind of passive mindset that can
be fostered by consumer centered
activism I think that supreme banana
does think of veganism just as a boycott
just as a decision made by isolated
individuals well I understand how
immoral the meat and dairy industry is
so I am gonna change my lifestyle I'm
gonna reduce or eliminate my use of
these things and she just sees it in
terms of that abstract mathematical
formula of millions and millions of
people
reducing their consumption of these
things and then industry in society
beyond that responding now III simply
don't think if you were in the context
of the year 1949 or 1950 one I don't
think you could honestly look at the
world around you and say this is how
we're going to eliminate the smoking of
tobacco not this alone of course it's a
great start it has to start somewhere
and has to start with you making the
commitment to quit smoking you can't
really advocate for the abolition of
tobacco in our society if you're still
smoking yourself it's a start don't get
me wrong and some percentage of people
are gonna wake up to how harmful and
dangerous tobacco is even though there
are all these other pressing political
issues around you but obviously you need
people to get organized and Lobby
government to change attitudes inside
the halls of power to change attitudes
inside the establishment to change
attitudes even inside university
departments that teach health and
medicine inside hospitals I mean with
veganism we deal with specialized
medical professions like dietitians and
of course oncologists and cancer
specialists are involved in both the
organs but veganism the arguments both
cigarettes there is an institutional and
political dimension of this that goes
far far beyond you know reduce at
Arianism and goes beyond a definition of
vegans as merely the ultimate reduce
deterrence right
vegans become the people who are engaged
in that long term struggle and in many
ways not all that type of struggle with
cigarettes has been won compare the year
1950 to the year 2000 in terms of the
status of cigarettes in our society it's
a tremendous transformation people still
have the freedom to choose to smoke
cigarettes but not inside hospital not
inside a boardroom not inside a school
not inside most government offices right
things have changed profoundly even
though a significant percentage the
population is still smoking tobacco
right and the word is out the cultural
perception of tobacco has changed in the
basic fundamental medical underst
that is a bad habit is now universally
understood even by the people who
sheepishly continue to smoke tobacco
knowing that they're harming their
health knowing that in some way they're
making the world a worse place by
smoking tobacco every way alright um the
real reason why I like a strict
definition of veganism again not to
misrepresent what's free banana said or
why she said it the real reason why I
care about it is that my view of
veganism is not passive is not purely
consumerist it's not purely a boycott my
view of veganism is dynamic and
politicized and is about lobbying for
organizing for social change cultural
change political and legal change
changes in the universities changes in
how schoolchildren are taught about meat
and milk and eggs changes at every level
of government changes in how prisoners
in prisons are fed changes and how old
people and all folks home are fed
changes at every level that will have to
be lobbied for and debated and
ultimately won right why is it that
hospitals give their patients food that
we know scientifically no makes them
sick it's a big question and it's not
gonna be answered overnight hospitals
are not gonna easily or lightly give up
feeding bacon and eggs to their hospital
patients it's absurd and it's surreal
but we still are at that level of asking
those kinds of questions school boards
are not going to easily or lightly stop
giving children propaganda that they
ought to drink milk every day and that
they ought to eat eggs every day which
really happens right now throughout the
whole Western world right and I saw I
remember I saw photographs of this the
beef board in Australia and the bizarre
propaganda they expose children to in
Australia in the Austrian school world
okay
you're never gonna solve those problems
with these attitudes that supreme banana
expresses understand why from a consumer
centered perspective in terms of merely
changing consumer behavior
she thinks the most important part of
veganism is go
people oh you quit eating cheese that's
wonderful
she's just arguable positive affirmation
for people who made small efforts and
recognizing those efforts and thinking
in terms of the aggregate total amount
of consumption being reduced whether you
have 5 million people who are reduced at
Ariens or just 5 thousand people who are
a hundred percent pure vegans right she
would rather have a larger number of
people who are not really committed to
the cause ethically not really committed
to the cause politically but who are
reducing their consumption okay I
sympathize I do
her position is rational right but I'm
looking at the whole picture I'm looking
at the whole process of cultural and
political change and I'm seeing just
like at the end of World War two if the
American government is supporting the
cigarette industry to this extent where
they're handing out cartons of
cigarettes to conquered people in Europe
they're handing out cigarettes not just
to American soldiers but to the Germans
to the people who were their enemies
just a few months ago that's how deeply
the government and the industry support
each other a light bulb has to go on at
some point where you say this cannot
purely be a matter of my personal purity
or my encouraging others to emulate me
in that purity or to do what they can to
reduce their consumption so I do think
that supreme banana has a valid point
here although it's limited and I think I
have a valid point also it is nice to be
nice if you meet someone who's just a
reducer terian or someone who is
inspired by the idea of veganism but
they only can appropriate a little piece
of that idea into their own lives into
their own lifestyle into their diet or
what have you if you meet someone who
still wears leather shoes and still eats
a steak once a month but is trying to
reduce their impact if you have it in
your heart to be nice to them to be
encouraging to them to be positive of
them that's basically what she's singing
the praises of she's saying it's nice to
be nice it's great to be positive and
encouraging towards those peep
who are not vegan who are reduced Aryan
because if we have 5 million reduced
Aryans they can significantly reduce
their negative impacts on the world in
terms of ecology in terms of animal
exploitation etc etc you know without
being vegan and we can recognize that we
can be nice about it ok it's a valid
point
it's a point but I want us to move
beyond a view of the world that sees us
as merely reducing our negative impacts
I want us to move on to a much more
dynamic model of veganism as a social
movement where we're trying to get
organized to have the maximum positive
impact and you baby just getting
organized with 50 people or you may be
getting organized with 500 people or you
may be getting organized with just 5 ok
but when you're looking around and ask
yourself who are the people who I can
take with me to City Hall who are the
people I can take with me to the school
board who are the people who are really
gonna have the level of Verve and
tenacity and talent and intelligence and
dedication and self-discipline to make a
difference in this broader institutional
political and cultural context who's
who's with me it's not gonna be a
wishy-washy produced Arian you're going
to be looking to get into that kind of
organization political organization with
other people who are not just 100
percent vegan but who are I think 100
percent vegan for the right reasons two
more points real quick
I'm tempted to end the video just there
right now I have a children's story book
about veganism
it's a story book for children written
in Chinese translated into English and
German and Russian it's very sentimental
and moving story but at the end of the
day yeah it's kind of vegan propaganda
it's explaining the cause of veganism
for an audience of children and parents
and kids cuz they marry this guy in
theory the best artists for this book
may be a meat-eater maybe there's
someone who's a 100% professional great
artist
whose maybe there are Pro they've
already Illustrated ten or 20 different
children's storybooks and they can sit
down with the paintbrush and do a great
job illustrating the storybook and then
go to McDonald's afterwards eat a
hamburger right but you know you know
I'm interviewing different artists leave
something to it and that's not movie for
its top I'm looking for someone who's
vegan who's really vegan Harvey not
reduced to terian not vegetarian not
eating a steak let's no oil and I'm even
looking for somebody who's even for the
right reasons
someone who's an ethical vegan not just
health-conscious vegan or something else
you know what I mean
and ideally someone who's an ethical
vegan who's even an activist who has you
know that's what I'm looking for
that's what I'm looking for why is that
does it matter more
does it matter more if I'm getting into
a situation where I'm spending time and
money and the artists getting paid
artists isn't working for free and I'm
collaborating with someone in a
political movement however tiny however
miniscule in this example who do I want
to work with I want to work with
somebody who's really vegan I want to
work with somebody who's really vegan
for all the right reasons and even if
you don't feel that way now I guarantee
you as you move from a more passive view
of veganism to this more dynamic view of
veganism or aspirational view of
veganism I think you'll start to feel
the same way I think if you're actually
going to meetings at the school board or
at a boardroom or whatever you just have
the news of the vegans when you sit down
to that meeting and there are other
people there who are literally eating an
ice cream cone and wearing leather when
the show of the meeting you think this
isn't what I got in the car - yes I feel
let down I feel in terms of my time and
my effort hey great all kinds of causes
do result in vegans collaborating with
meat-eaters I've used many examples of
the channel of vegans collaborating with
hunters and what-have-you but as with
the example of cigarette smoking
if we're putting together that team of
people what's not just about me quitting
smoking it's about the fact that as a
society I want all of us to quit smoking
I want to see those legislative changes
I want to see those changes at health
education I want to see everything as
step one I can't really advocate for
that cause very well if I can't at least
put together a few people who really do
have the self-discipline to quit smoking
themselves and to give voice to that
moral cause